TODO fill out readme


Intro:

After using Razor at a previous employer, and after struggling to find a cheap way to host an using ASP.Net, I decided to try and recreate some of those features with Java Script. I have only had Back End and Full Stack positions so consider this my first steps into Front End Development.

Content management:

Every page starts by loading the skeleton (skeleton.html) that contains the basic parts of the site including all of the tags that hold the other parts. The Nav Bar and Contact Bar also have their own html files that are loaded in with everything else. The way the content is handled is different depending on the scenario. I wanted a refresher on JSON so the About and Contact pages are served off of JSON files that are fetched in my the content manager. Since the Portfolio is so different from the other parts of the site I need to load that up with another layer of HTML. The content for the blog is served using an RSS feed. Most content on the site that is displayed in rows uses an alternating template for every other post, this was done to make it easier to read and tell what images and text belong tow which row.


Nav and Contact bars:
At first glance the Nav Bar doesn't look like much, but don't let appearances fool you. I put a lot of work into finding ways to change pages seamlessly. Instead of changing URLs like sites normally do, the Nav-Bar loads the page's contents directly into the active html site. It may appear that the website has changed but that is just the content in the special-content field changing. I took the time to ensure that it still feels like the page has changed by changing the Nav Bar CSS and changing the url and page info on clicking over to another tab. This can be proven by checking the debug console, the page that is loaded should still be the page that shows up there.


Mobile support:
The mobile support on this website is comprised of bootstrap an a simple CSS media check to see if the width of the browser is bellow a certain threshold. Elements change on the website depending on if these criteria are met elements shift and change. An example of this is the nav-bar, it will go from being a 4 x 1 grid to a 2 x 2 grid if the media query says that the width of the screen is small enough.

About:
The about page is designed to be the first thing people see when they see my website as it is the index/home page. Info on this page is loaded by the JSON content loader. The about me section is to act as a friendly hello to the website and provide a To Long Didn’t Read for anyone who might have briefly clicked the link attached in my resume and cover letter. The very next section is for my skills, I determined that my skills are more important that my work experience and academic courses so that one goes second followed by the other two categories. The lists looked bland as unordered lists so I added some CSS and icons to the mix to make it more consumable. 

TODO Other:

Portfolio:
I created the portfolio section as a place for people who don’t use GitHub to view my work. The contents of the portfolio section are kept in a JSON file along with the image sources for the images and icons. The buttons are generated by reading the JSON and creating a new button for every entry. On clicking a button the contents are loaded depending on the index of the button, when the page is loaded the index of the button is set to zero which will load what ever is first. This system was recently updated to use JSON and originally was hard coded in the .js file.

Blog:
I was told by a family member that I need to have a way to show off my innate hunger for problem solving. Around this time I also wanted to do a project on my site that used an external resource, and just like that the blog was born. My site calls an API Gateway on AWS, which triggers a Lambda function.  This Lambda function is what then calls the Blogger API and then which passes the data back to my site. This was done to hide the API Key from inspect element and get multiple post ids in a single request.

TODO: Image Zoom

credits:

Font Awesom Icons for Contact and Nav Bars:
https://fontawesome.com/v4/icons/

Boston Skyline images:
https://www.artlifting.com/products/zakim-art-print

Developer Icons
https://devicon.dev/